In this lecture, we take a look at data with checkboxes and we're going to use a command called is
selected.
So how do we see if the checkbox is ticked?
We can use a command.
The code is selected.
There is selected command text to see if the checkboxes ticked.
We might take an antique for a checkboxes.
Let me test the form.
This command will be useful to confirm.
Our selection is correct.
So an example of how it uses command is driver defined elements by I.D and in first double quotes is
the selector value and at the end of that I use the is selected method.
So let's try this out.
So before I write any code, it's important I explain what we're going to be testing and some problems
that you might face.
So I'm going to open up Chrome and go to the automation test and website and I'm going to click on the
dropdown link, which will take you to the following page.
Now our testing in this lecture is going to be focusing on this checkbox section.
And as you can see, the red value is ticked by default.
Now in selenium web driver.
The is selected method can be problematic because of the HTML.
The user selected method requires invoking an input tag.
So if I was to right click and inspect this page and focus on that tick, you'll see that it's actually
highlighted the label rather than the input.
So if I tried to use the selected method.
On this label, it would output a false value all the time, even though it is ticked.
And the reason for that is the selected method needs to use the input tag instead.
So let me show you an example.
So I'm going to open up a clips and I am going to copy the class and last lecture using Control C and
D and I'm going to changes the lecture form and I'm going to name it check boxes and click, okay?
And I'm going to open up that class and I don't require this song and the Ludus and I need to change
the address.
So I'm going to go directly to the drop down page.
So I'm a copy that address and paste it here.
So if I wanted to use a selected method, I need a way of knowing what the output of that test would
be.
So I need to write the value to console and how we can write values to console in Java is by using the
following system thought out thoughts, print and open and close in brackets and a semicolon at the
end.
Now whatever we put in these in this bracket is what would output in the console.
So if I'll give you an example, if I write a message inside this class.
And then try running it.
Let's see what happens.
So it goes to the drop down page.
But if I close this down and look into it in the clips in the console, you'll see I am a message that's
been printed because it is system out print line command.
Now we can use this to test the is selected method.
So if I was to if I was to remove this for now and if I was to write a test, the use is selected method,
I would want something like drive up top, find element by it selector and I'll come back to that.
Is selected and a semicolon at the end.
So I need to provide a select the hill.
So I'm going to go.
I am going to go to the Ragnarok Velocity panel.
And if I click on that tick, you'll see that they've provided these values.
So let's say I use this value here, the CSF selector.
So if I copy that.
And then go back to eclipse and paste that.
Select the value here.
So I need to find the output of this test.
So how I can do that is if I run system dot else, dot print outlet and open and close in brackets and
semicolon.
If I copy all this line apart from the semicolon.
So the rest of this.
And if I use control x and y keyboard, which is the cuts.
And then paste it here.
You'll see that has been accepted.
So all this is doing.
I mean, if I write it like this, it might be a little bit clearer.
So all I've done is put that line inside the system, fill out the print line brackets.
And what that will do is it will print the result of this test to console.
So if I say this now and try running this class, let's see what happens.
So if I go back to Eclipse, you'll see that the value of for sale, even though is ticked.
And the reason for that is, as explained, is that when we use this selector tool.
It picks up on the label.
It doesn't select the input.
So if I to select their input instead.
You see, I've got the following selectors generated.
So I'm going to use the top one so far.
Copy that.
And now replace that value with the new one and try running this test again.
So fail safe.
Right click run.
Job application.
Let's see what happens now.
If I go back to clips, you'll see it's true.
So the important thing to remember with the selected method is to make sure to focus on the input.
Take.
And you can do that.
By assessing the document object model in HTML, a input tag for a checkbox is usually always paired
with a label tag.
But when we write our tests, we need to focus and make sure that we select the input tag before running
is selected.
So before we bring this lecture to a close, let's try again, but this time with the green checkbox.
So I'm going to use a selector to click on that green checkbox.
But again, if we look at the document object model is highlighted, the label instead of the input
that we need to use the input.
So I'm going to select the input and I'm going to copy the above success.
So if I go back to Eclipse, I am going to quickly write a comment.
So to forward slashes and paste that value and I'm going to copy this line.
And I am going to use that selective value by cutting it and pasting it here.
So this test here is going to take the first checkbox.
And this test here is going to test the second checkbox, which is the green one.
And because this one here is by default, I expect it to return.
True.
And because this one here is unselected by default, I expect it to return false.
So let's give it a try.
So if I minimize this and go back to clips, you'll see true and false.
So this first one return true is expected because it's ticked and the second month returned.
False because it wasn't.
So I hope this lecture was useful to you.
And the key point to remember is when use is selected, method is to use it against the selected.
It focuses on the input tag.
Thanks for watching.